docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType.md, before:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Specification
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType
---
# Specification class

Provides static methods that are useful for writing specifications and interacting with the systematic testing engine.

```csharp
public static class Specification
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Assert](Specification/Assert)(…) | Checks if the predicate holds, and if not, throws an AssertionFailureException exception. (4 methods) |
| static [Monitor&lt;T&gt;](Specification/Monitor)(…) | Invokes the specified monitor with the given event. |
| static [RegisterMonitor&lt;T&gt;](Specification/RegisterMonitor)() | Registers a new safety or liveness monitor. |

## Remarks

See [Specifications Overview](/coyote/learn/core/specifications) for more information.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications](../MicrosoftCoyoteSpecificationsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

new task liveness monitor API (#96)

docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType.md, after:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Specification
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType
---
# Specification class

Provides static methods that are useful for writing specifications and interacting with the systematic testing engine.

```csharp
public static class Specification
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Assert](Specification/Assert)(…) | Checks if the predicate holds, and if not, throws an AssertionFailureException exception. (4 methods) |
| static [Monitor&lt;T&gt;](Specification/Monitor)(…) | Invokes the specified monitor with the given event. |
| static [RegisterMonitor&lt;T&gt;](Specification/RegisterMonitor)() | Registers a new safety or liveness monitor. |
| static [WhenTrue](Specification/WhenTrue)(…) | Creates a Task that will complete when *predicate* returns true. Invoking this method specifies a liveness property, which must be eventually satisfied during systematic testing, else the method throws an AssertionFailureException exception. |

## Remarks

See [Specifications Overview](/coyote/learn/core/specifications) for more information.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications](../MicrosoftCoyoteSpecificationsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
