docs/_learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly.md, before:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Microsoft.Coyote
permalink: /learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly
---
# Microsoft.Coyote assembly

## Microsoft.Coyote namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [Configuration](Microsoft.Coyote/ConfigurationType) | The Coyote project configurations. |
| abstract class [Event](Microsoft.Coyote/EventType) | Abstract class representing an event. |
| class [ExecutionCanceledException](Microsoft.Coyote/ExecutionCanceledExceptionType) | Exception that is thrown upon cancellation of testing execution by the runtime. |
| class [RuntimeException](Microsoft.Coyote/RuntimeExceptionType) | An exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Actor](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) | Type that implements an actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor. |
| class [ActorId](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorIdType) | Unique actor id. |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatterType) | This class implements IActorRuntimeLog and generates output in a a human readable text format. |
| class [AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. This operation contains a [`TaskCompletionSource`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSourceType) that can be used to wait for the operation to be completed. |
| class [DefaultEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/DefaultEventType) | A default event that is generated by the runtime when no user-defined event is dequeued or received. |
| class [HaltEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/HaltEventType) | The halt event. |
| interface [IActorRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes runtime methods for creating and executing actors. |
| interface [IActorRuntimeLog](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) | Interface that allows an external module to track what is happening in the [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType). |
| delegate [OnEventDroppedHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnEventDroppedHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnEventDropped`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntime/OnEventDropped) event. |
| enum [OnExceptionOutcome](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnExceptionOutcomeType) | The outcome when an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) throws an exception. |
| class [Operation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. |
| class [QuiescentOperation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/QuiescentOperationType) | This is a special operation that is completed when the Actor returns to a quiescent state, meaning the inbox cannot process any events, either it is empty or everything in it is deferred. Quiescence is never reached on a StateMachine that has a DefaultEvent handler. In that case the default event handler can be considered a quiescent notification. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) runtime. |
| class [SendOptions](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/SendOptionsType) | Represents a send event configuration that is used during testing. |
| abstract class [StateMachine](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/StateMachineType) | Type that implements a state machine actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor with states, state transitions and event handlers. |
| class [UnhandledEventException](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/UnhandledEventExceptionType) | Signals that an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) received an unhandled event. |
| class [WildCardEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/WildCardEventType) | The wild card event. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [SharedCounter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedCounterType) | A thread-safe counter that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| class [SharedDictionary&lt;TKey,TValue&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedDictionary-2Type) | A thread-safe dictionary that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| static class [SharedDictionary](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedDictionaryType) | A thread-safe dictionary that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| class [SharedRegister&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedRegister-1Type) | A thread-safe register that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| static class [SharedRegister](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedRegisterType) | A thread-safe register that can be shared in-memory by actors. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [TimerElapsedEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers/TimerElapsedEventType) | Defines a timer elapsed event that is sent from a timer to the actor that owns the timer. |
| class [TimerInfo](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers/TimerInfoType) | Stores information about a timer that can send timeout events to its owner actor. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilderType) | Implements the [`IActorRuntimeLog`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) and builds a directed graph from the recorded events and state transitions. |
| class [CoverageInfo](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/CoverageInfoType) | Class for storing coverage-specific data across multiple testing iterations. |
| class [EventCoverage](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/EventCoverageType) | This class maintains information about events received and sent from each state of each actor. |
| class [Graph](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphType) | A directed graph made up of Nodes and Links. |
| class [GraphLink](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphLinkType) | A Link represents a directed graph connection between two Nodes. |
| class [GraphNode](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphNodeType) | A Node of a Graph. |
| class [GraphObject](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphObjectType) | A Node of a Graph. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.IO namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [ConsoleLogger](Microsoft.Coyote.IO/ConsoleLoggerType) | Logger that writes text to the console. |
| class [InMemoryLogger](Microsoft.Coyote.IO/InMemoryLoggerType) | Thread safe logger that writes text to an in-memory buffer. The buffered text can be extracted using the ToString() method. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Random namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [Generator](Microsoft.Coyote.Random/GeneratorType) | Represents a pseudo-random value generator, which is an algorithm that produces a sequence of values that meet certain statistical requirements for randomness. During systematic testing, the generation of random values is controlled, which allows the runtime to explore combinations of choices to find bugs. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| interface [ICoyoteRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes base runtime methods for Coyote. |
| delegate [OnFailureHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/OnFailureHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnFailure`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime/OnFailure) event. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`ICoyoteRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntimeType) runtime. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Monitor](Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/MonitorType) | Abstract class representing a specification monitor. |
| static class [Specification](Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType) | Provides static methods that are useful for writing specifications and interacting with the systematic testing engine. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [AsyncLock](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/AsyncLockType) | A non-reentrant mutual exclusion lock that can be acquired asynchronously in a first-in first-out order. During testing, the lock is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. |
| class [Semaphore](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/SemaphoreType) | A semaphore that limits the number of tasks that can access a resource. During testing, the semaphore is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. |
| class [SynchronizedBlock](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/SynchronizedBlockType) | Provides a mechanism that synchronizes access to objects. It is implemented as a thin wrapper on Monitor. During testing, the implementation is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. It can be used as a replacement of the lock keyword to allow systematic testing. |
| class [Task&lt;TResult&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/Task-1Type) | Represents an asynchronous operation that can return a value. Each [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/Task-1Type) is a thin wrapper over Task and each call simply invokes the wrapped task. During testing, a [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is controlled by the runtime and systematically interleaved with other asynchronous operations to find bugs. |
| class [Task](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) | Represents an asynchronous operation. Each [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is a thin wrapper over Task and each call simply invokes the wrapped task. During testing, a [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is controlled by the runtime and systematically interleaved with other asynchronous operations to find bugs. |
| class [TaskCompletionSource&lt;TResult&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1Type) | Represents the producer side of a task unbound to a delegate, providing access to the consumer side through the [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1/Task) property. |
| static class [TaskCompletionSource](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSourceType) | Represents the producer side of a task unbound to a delegate, providing access to the consumer side through the [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1/Task) property. |
| static class [TaskExtensions](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskExtensionsType) | Extension methods for Task and Task objects. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

Remove QuiescentOperation, but add it to the tests as a possible implementation of Operation.  Fix bugs in ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder so it tracks which actor creates another actor.

docs/_learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly.md, after:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Microsoft.Coyote
permalink: /learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly
---
# Microsoft.Coyote assembly

## Microsoft.Coyote namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [Configuration](Microsoft.Coyote/ConfigurationType) | The Coyote project configurations. |
| abstract class [Event](Microsoft.Coyote/EventType) | Abstract class representing an event. |
| class [ExecutionCanceledException](Microsoft.Coyote/ExecutionCanceledExceptionType) | Exception that is thrown upon cancellation of testing execution by the runtime. |
| class [RuntimeException](Microsoft.Coyote/RuntimeExceptionType) | An exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Actor](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) | Type that implements an actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor. |
| class [ActorId](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorIdType) | Unique actor id. |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatterType) | This class implements IActorRuntimeLog and generates output in a a human readable text format. |
| class [AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type) | An object representing an awaitable long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. |
| class [DefaultEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/DefaultEventType) | A default event that is generated by the runtime when no user-defined event is dequeued or received. |
| class [HaltEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/HaltEventType) | The halt event. |
| interface [IActorRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes runtime methods for creating and executing actors. |
| interface [IActorRuntimeLog](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) | Interface that allows an external module to track what is happening in the [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType). |
| delegate [OnEventDroppedHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnEventDroppedHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnEventDropped`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntime/OnEventDropped) event. |
| enum [OnExceptionOutcome](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnExceptionOutcomeType) | The outcome when an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) throws an exception. |
| class [Operation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor involved can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. property. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) runtime. |
| class [SendOptions](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/SendOptionsType) | Represents a send event configuration that is used during testing. |
| abstract class [StateMachine](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/StateMachineType) | Type that implements a state machine actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor with states, state transitions and event handlers. |
| class [UnhandledEventException](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/UnhandledEventExceptionType) | Signals that an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) received an unhandled event. |
| class [WildCardEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/WildCardEventType) | The wild card event. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [SharedCounter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedCounterType) | A thread-safe counter that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| class [SharedDictionary&lt;TKey,TValue&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedDictionary-2Type) | A thread-safe dictionary that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| static class [SharedDictionary](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedDictionaryType) | A thread-safe dictionary that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| class [SharedRegister&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedRegister-1Type) | A thread-safe register that can be shared in-memory by actors. |
| static class [SharedRegister](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.SharedObjects/SharedRegisterType) | A thread-safe register that can be shared in-memory by actors. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [TimerElapsedEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers/TimerElapsedEventType) | Defines a timer elapsed event that is sent from a timer to the actor that owns the timer. |
| class [TimerInfo](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors.Timers/TimerInfoType) | Stores information about a timer that can send timeout events to its owner actor. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilderType) | Implements the [`IActorRuntimeLog`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) and builds a directed graph from the recorded events and state transitions. |
| class [CoverageInfo](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/CoverageInfoType) | Class for storing coverage-specific data across multiple testing iterations. |
| class [EventCoverage](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/EventCoverageType) | This class maintains information about events received and sent from each state of each actor. |
| class [Graph](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphType) | A directed graph made up of Nodes and Links. |
| class [GraphLink](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphLinkType) | A Link represents a directed graph connection between two Nodes. |
| class [GraphNode](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphNodeType) | A Node of a Graph. |
| class [GraphObject](Microsoft.Coyote.Coverage/GraphObjectType) | A Node of a Graph. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.IO namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [ConsoleLogger](Microsoft.Coyote.IO/ConsoleLoggerType) | Logger that writes text to the console. |
| class [InMemoryLogger](Microsoft.Coyote.IO/InMemoryLoggerType) | Thread safe logger that writes text to an in-memory buffer. The buffered text can be extracted using the ToString() method. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Random namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [Generator](Microsoft.Coyote.Random/GeneratorType) | Represents a pseudo-random value generator, which is an algorithm that produces a sequence of values that meet certain statistical requirements for randomness. During systematic testing, the generation of random values is controlled, which allows the runtime to explore combinations of choices to find bugs. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| interface [ICoyoteRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes base runtime methods for Coyote. |
| delegate [OnFailureHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/OnFailureHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnFailure`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime/OnFailure) event. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`ICoyoteRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntimeType) runtime. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Monitor](Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/MonitorType) | Abstract class representing a specification monitor. |
| static class [Specification](Microsoft.Coyote.Specifications/SpecificationType) | Provides static methods that are useful for writing specifications and interacting with the systematic testing engine. |

## Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [AsyncLock](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/AsyncLockType) | A non-reentrant mutual exclusion lock that can be acquired asynchronously in a first-in first-out order. During testing, the lock is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. |
| class [Semaphore](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/SemaphoreType) | A semaphore that limits the number of tasks that can access a resource. During testing, the semaphore is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. |
| class [SynchronizedBlock](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/SynchronizedBlockType) | Provides a mechanism that synchronizes access to objects. It is implemented as a thin wrapper on Monitor. During testing, the implementation is automatically replaced with a controlled mocked version. It can be used as a replacement of the lock keyword to allow systematic testing. |
| class [Task&lt;TResult&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/Task-1Type) | Represents an asynchronous operation that can return a value. Each [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/Task-1Type) is a thin wrapper over Task and each call simply invokes the wrapped task. During testing, a [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is controlled by the runtime and systematically interleaved with other asynchronous operations to find bugs. |
| class [Task](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) | Represents an asynchronous operation. Each [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is a thin wrapper over Task and each call simply invokes the wrapped task. During testing, a [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskType) is controlled by the runtime and systematically interleaved with other asynchronous operations to find bugs. |
| class [TaskCompletionSource&lt;TResult&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1Type) | Represents the producer side of a task unbound to a delegate, providing access to the consumer side through the [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1/Task) property. |
| static class [TaskCompletionSource](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSourceType) | Represents the producer side of a task unbound to a delegate, providing access to the consumer side through the [`Task`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSource-1/Task) property. |
| static class [TaskExtensions](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskExtensionsType) | Extension methods for Task and Task objects. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
