docs/_learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace.md, before:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Microsoft.Coyote.Actors
permalink: /learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace
---
## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Actor](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) | Type that implements an actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor. |
| class [ActorId](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorIdType) | Unique actor id. |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatterType) | This class implements IActorRuntimeLog and generates output in a a human readable text format. |
| class [AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. This operation contains a [`TaskCompletionSource`](Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSourceType) that can be used to wait for the operation to be completed. |
| class [DefaultEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/DefaultEventType) | A default event that is generated by the runtime when no user-defined event is dequeued or received. |
| class [HaltEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/HaltEventType) | The halt event. |
| interface [IActorRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes runtime methods for creating and executing actors. |
| interface [IActorRuntimeLog](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) | Interface that allows an external module to track what is happening in the [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType). |
| delegate [OnEventDroppedHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnEventDroppedHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnEventDropped`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntime/OnEventDropped) event. |
| enum [OnExceptionOutcome](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnExceptionOutcomeType) | The outcome when an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) throws an exception. |
| class [Operation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. |
| class [QuiescentOperation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/QuiescentOperationType) | This is a special operation that is completed when the Actor returns to a quiescent state, meaning the inbox cannot process any events, either it is empty or everything in it is deferred. Quiescence is never reached on a StateMachine that has a DefaultEvent handler. In that case the default event handler can be considered a quiescent notification. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) runtime. |
| class [SendOptions](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/SendOptionsType) | Represents a send event configuration that is used during testing. |
| abstract class [StateMachine](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/StateMachineType) | Type that implements a state machine actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor with states, state transitions and event handlers. |
| class [UnhandledEventException](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/UnhandledEventExceptionType) | Signals that an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) received an unhandled event. |
| class [WildCardEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/WildCardEventType) | The wild card event. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

Remove QuiescentOperation, but add it to the tests as a possible implementation of Operation.  Fix bugs in ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder so it tracks which actor creates another actor.

docs/_learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace.md, after:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Microsoft.Coyote.Actors
permalink: /learn/ref/MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace
---
## Microsoft.Coyote.Actors namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| abstract class [Actor](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) | Type that implements an actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor. |
| class [ActorId](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorIdType) | Unique actor id. |
| class [ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatter](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorRuntimeLogTextFormatterType) | This class implements IActorRuntimeLog and generates output in a a human readable text format. |
| class [AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt;](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type) | An object representing an awaitable long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. |
| class [DefaultEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/DefaultEventType) | A default event that is generated by the runtime when no user-defined event is dequeued or received. |
| class [HaltEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/HaltEventType) | The halt event. |
| interface [IActorRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) | Interface that exposes runtime methods for creating and executing actors. |
| interface [IActorRuntimeLog](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeLogType) | Interface that allows an external module to track what is happening in the [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType). |
| delegate [OnEventDroppedHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnEventDroppedHandlerType) | Handles the [`OnEventDropped`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntime/OnEventDropped) event. |
| enum [OnExceptionOutcome](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OnExceptionOutcomeType) | The outcome when an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) throws an exception. |
| class [Operation](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType) | An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor involved can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/Actor/CurrentOperation) property. property. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/RuntimeFactoryType) | Provides methods for creating a [`IActorRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/IActorRuntimeType) runtime. |
| class [SendOptions](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/SendOptionsType) | Represents a send event configuration that is used during testing. |
| abstract class [StateMachine](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/StateMachineType) | Type that implements a state machine actor. Inherit from this class to declare a custom actor with states, state transitions and event handlers. |
| class [UnhandledEventException](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/UnhandledEventExceptionType) | Signals that an [`Actor`](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/ActorType) received an unhandled event. |
| class [WildCardEvent](Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/WildCardEventType) | The wild card event. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
