docs/tutorials/overview.md, before:

## Learn how to use Coyote in practice

Now that you have learned how to [install](../get-started/install.md) and
[use](../get-started/using-coyote.md) the Coyote tool, you are ready to [write your first
concurrency unit test](first-concurrency-unit-test.md). This introductory tutorial is also available
as a [video on YouTube](https://youtu.be/wuKo-9iRm6o).

Next, we recommend you to read the following tutorials:

- [Test concurrent CRUD operations](test-concurrent-operations.md)
- [Test an ASP.NET service](testing-aspnet-service.md)
- [Test failover and liveness](test-failover.md)
- More on the way!

If you are interested in the more advanced [actor programming
model](../concepts/actors/overview.md) of Coyote, check out these tutorials:

- [Hello world in Coyote actors](actors/hello-world.md)
- [Raft consensus protocol on Azure](actors/raft-azure.md)
- [Raft consensus protocol with mocks for testing](actors/raft-mocking.md)
- [Test failover and liveness in actors](actors/test-failover.md)
- More on the way!

You can learn the core concepts behind Coyote by reading [here](../concepts/non-determinism.md).

Commit message:

two new tutorials on mocking (#131)

docs/tutorials/overview.md, after:

## Learn how to use Coyote in practice

Now that you have learned how to [install](../get-started/install.md) and
[use](../get-started/using-coyote.md) the Coyote tool, you are ready to [write your first
concurrency unit test](first-concurrency-unit-test.md). This introductory tutorial is also available
as a [video on YouTube](https://youtu.be/wuKo-9iRm6o).

Next, we recommend you to read the following tutorials:

- [Test concurrent CRUD operations](test-concurrent-operations.md)
- [Mocking dependencies for testing](mocks/mock-dependencies.md)
- [Test an ASP.NET service](testing-aspnet-service.md)
- [Test failover and liveness](test-failover.md)
- More on the way!

If you are looking to hone your mock crafting skills, go through the following tutorials:

- [Simulating optimistic concurrency control using ETags](mocks/optimistic-concurrency-control.md)
- More on the way!

If you are interested in the more advanced [actor programming
model](../concepts/actors/overview.md) of Coyote, check out these tutorials:

- [Hello world in Coyote actors](actors/hello-world.md)
- [Raft consensus protocol on Azure](actors/raft-azure.md)
- [Raft consensus protocol with mocks for testing](actors/raft-mocking.md)
- [Test failover and liveness in actors](actors/test-failover.md)
- More on the way!

You can learn the core concepts behind Coyote by reading [here](../concepts/non-determinism.md).
