docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Rewriting/RewritingOptions.md, before:

# RewritingOptions class

Options for rewriting binaries.

```csharp
public class RewritingOptions
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RewritingOptions](RewritingOptions/RewritingOptions.md)() | The default constructor. |
| static [ParseFromJSON](RewritingOptions/ParseFromJSON.md)(…) | Parses the [`RewritingOptions`](RewritingOptions.md) from the specified JSON configuration file. |
| [AssembliesDirectory](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md) { get; set; } | The directory containing the assemblies to rewrite. |
| [AssemblyPaths](RewritingOptions/AssemblyPaths.md) { get; set; } | The file names of the assemblies to rewrite. If this list is empty then it will rewrite all assemblies in the [`AssembliesDirectory`](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md). |
| [DependencySearchPaths](RewritingOptions/DependencySearchPaths.md) { get; set; } | The paths to search for resolving dependencies. |
| [IgnoredAssemblies](RewritingOptions/IgnoredAssemblies.md) { get; set; } | The regular expressions used to match against assembly names to determine which assemblies to ignore when rewriting dependencies or a whole directory. |
| [IsRewritingDependencies](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingDependencies.md) { get; set; } | Whether to also rewrite dependent assemblies that are found in the same location. |
| [IsRewritingThreads](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingThreads.md) { get; } | True if rewriting Threads as controlled tasks. |
| [IsRewritingUnitTests](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingUnitTests.md) { get; } | True if rewriting of unit test methods is enabled, else false. |
| [Logger](RewritingOptions/Logger.md) { get; set; } | The logger used for rewriting. |
| [LogLevel](RewritingOptions/LogLevel.md) { get; set; } | The amount of log output to produce. |
| [OutputDirectory](RewritingOptions/OutputDirectory.md) { get; set; } | The output directory where rewritten assemblies are placed. If this is the same as the [`AssembliesDirectory`](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md) then the rewritten assemblies will replace the original assemblies. |
| [StrongNameKeyFile](RewritingOptions/StrongNameKeyFile.md) { get; set; } | Path of strong name key to use for signing rewritten assemblies. |

## Remarks

See [rewriting](/coyote/get-started/rewriting) for more information.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Rewriting](../Microsoft.Coyote.RewritingNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote.Test](../Microsoft.Coyote.Test.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.Test.dll -->

Commit message:

add data race detection rewriting pass for Dictionary and List (#158)

docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Rewriting/RewritingOptions.md, after:

# RewritingOptions class

Options for rewriting binaries.

```csharp
public class RewritingOptions
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [RewritingOptions](RewritingOptions/RewritingOptions.md)() | The default constructor. |
| static [ParseFromJSON](RewritingOptions/ParseFromJSON.md)(…) | Parses the [`RewritingOptions`](RewritingOptions.md) from the specified JSON configuration file. |
| [AssembliesDirectory](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md) { get; set; } | The directory containing the assemblies to rewrite. |
| [AssemblyPaths](RewritingOptions/AssemblyPaths.md) { get; set; } | The file names of the assemblies to rewrite. If this list is empty then it will rewrite all assemblies in the [`AssembliesDirectory`](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md). |
| [DependencySearchPaths](RewritingOptions/DependencySearchPaths.md) { get; set; } | The paths to search for resolving dependencies. |
| [IgnoredAssemblies](RewritingOptions/IgnoredAssemblies.md) { get; set; } | The regular expressions used to match against assembly names to determine which assemblies to ignore when rewriting dependencies or a whole directory. |
| [IsDataRaceCheckingEnabled](RewritingOptions/IsDataRaceCheckingEnabled.md) { get; set; } | True if rewriting for data race checking is enabled, else false. |
| [IsRewritingDependencies](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingDependencies.md) { get; set; } | True if rewriting dependent assemblies that are found in the same location is enabled, else false. |
| [IsRewritingThreads](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingThreads.md) { get; } | True if rewriting Threads as controlled tasks. |
| [IsRewritingUnitTests](RewritingOptions/IsRewritingUnitTests.md) { get; } | True if rewriting of unit test methods is enabled, else false. |
| [Logger](RewritingOptions/Logger.md) { get; set; } | The logger used for rewriting. |
| [LogLevel](RewritingOptions/LogLevel.md) { get; set; } | The amount of log output to produce. |
| [OutputDirectory](RewritingOptions/OutputDirectory.md) { get; set; } | The output directory where rewritten assemblies are placed. If this is the same as the [`AssembliesDirectory`](RewritingOptions/AssembliesDirectory.md) then the rewritten assemblies will replace the original assemblies. |
| [StrongNameKeyFile](RewritingOptions/StrongNameKeyFile.md) { get; set; } | Path of strong name key to use for signing rewritten assemblies. |

## Remarks

See [rewriting](/coyote/get-started/rewriting) for more information.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Rewriting](../Microsoft.Coyote.RewritingNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote.Test](../Microsoft.Coyote.Test.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.Test.dll -->
