docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md, before:

## Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [AssertionFailureException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/AssertionFailureException.md) | The exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime upon assertion failure. |
| class [ExecutionCanceledException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ExecutionCanceledException.md) | Exception that is thrown upon cancellation of testing execution by the runtime. |
| interface [ICoyoteRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime.md) | Interface that exposes base runtime methods for Coyote. |
| delegate [OnFailureHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/OnFailureHandler.md) | Handles the [`OnFailure`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime/OnFailure.md) event. |
| class [RuntimeException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeException.md) | An exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeFactory.md) | Provides methods for creating a [`ICoyoteRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime.md) runtime. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

expose API for adding scheduling points (#141)

docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md, after:

## Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime namespace

| public type | description |
| --- | --- |
| class [AssertionFailureException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/AssertionFailureException.md) | The exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime upon assertion failure. |
| class [ExecutionCanceledException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ExecutionCanceledException.md) | Exception that is thrown upon cancellation of testing execution by the runtime. |
| interface [ICoyoteRuntime](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime.md) | Interface that exposes base runtime methods for Coyote. |
| delegate [OnFailureHandler](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/OnFailureHandler.md) | Handles the [`OnFailure`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime/OnFailure.md) event. |
| class [RuntimeException](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeException.md) | An exception that is thrown by the Coyote runtime. |
| static class [RuntimeFactory](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/RuntimeFactory.md) | Provides methods for creating a [`ICoyoteRuntime`](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/ICoyoteRuntime.md) runtime. |
| static class [SchedulingPoint](Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/SchedulingPoint.md) | Provides a set of static methods for declaring points in the execution where interleavings between operations should be explored during testing. |

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
