docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/Operation.md, before:

# Operation class

Provides a set of static methods for instrumenting concurrency primitives that can then be controlled during testing.

```csharp
public static class Operation
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Complete](Operation/Complete.md)() | Completes the currently executing operation. |
| static [CreateFrom](Operation/CreateFrom.md)(…) | Creates a new controlled operation from the specified builder and returns its unique id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [CreateNext](Operation/CreateNext.md)() | Creates a new controlled operation and returns its unique id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [GetNextId](Operation/GetNextId.md)() | Returns the next available unique operation id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [PauseUntil](Operation/PauseUntil.md)(…) | Pauses the currently executing operation until the specified condition gets satisfied. |
| static [PauseUntilCompleted](Operation/PauseUntilCompleted.md)(…) | Pauses the currently executing operation until the operation with the specified id completes. |
| static [ScheduleNext](Operation/ScheduleNext.md)() | Schedules the next enabled operation, which can include the currently executing operation. |
| static [Start](Operation/Start.md)(…) | Starts executing the operation with the specified id. |
| static [TryReset](Operation/TryReset.md)(…) | Tries to reset the the operation with the specified id so that it can be reused. This is only allowed if the operation is already completed. |

## Remarks

These methods are thread-safe and no-op unless the test engine is attached.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime](../Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../Microsoft.Coyote.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

support for asynchronous locks and semaphores (#372)

docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/Operation.md, after:

# Operation class

Provides a set of static methods for instrumenting concurrency primitives that can then be controlled during testing.

```csharp
public static class Operation
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Complete](Operation/Complete.md)() | Completes the currently executing operation. |
| static [CreateFrom](Operation/CreateFrom.md)(…) | Creates a new controlled operation from the specified builder and returns its unique id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [CreateNext](Operation/CreateNext.md)() | Creates a new controlled operation and returns its unique id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [GetNextId](Operation/GetNextId.md)() | Returns the next available unique operation id, or null if the test engine is detached. |
| static [PauseUntil](Operation/PauseUntil.md)(…) | Pauses the currently executing operation until the specified condition gets resolved. |
| static [PauseUntilAsync](Operation/PauseUntilAsync.md)(…) | Asynchronously pauses the currently executing operation until the operation with the specified id completes. If *resumeAsynchronously* is set to true, then after the asynchronous pause, a new operation will be created to execute the continuation. |
| static [PauseUntilCompleted](Operation/PauseUntilCompleted.md)(…) | Pauses the currently executing operation until the operation with the specified id completes. |
| static [PauseUntilCompletedAsync](Operation/PauseUntilCompletedAsync.md)(…) | Asynchronously pauses the currently executing operation until the operation with the specified id completes. If *resumeAsynchronously* is set to true, then after the asynchronous pause, a new operation will be created to execute the continuation. |
| static [ScheduleNext](Operation/ScheduleNext.md)() | Schedules the next enabled operation, which can include the currently executing operation. |
| static [Start](Operation/Start.md)(…) | Starts executing the operation with the specified id. |
| static [TryReset](Operation/TryReset.md)(…) | Tries to reset the the operation with the specified id so that it can be reused. This is only allowed if the operation is already completed. |

## Remarks

These methods are thread-safe and no-op unless the test engine is attached.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime](../Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../Microsoft.Coyote.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
