docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/SchedulingPoint.md, before:

# SchedulingPoint class

Provides a set of static methods for declaring points in the execution where interleavings between operations should be explored during testing.

```csharp
public static class SchedulingPoint
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Interleave](SchedulingPoint/Interleave.md)() | Explores a possible interleaving with another controlled operation. |
| static [Read](SchedulingPoint/Read.md)(…) | Explores a possible interleaving due to a 'READ' operation on the specified shared state. |
| static [Resume](SchedulingPoint/Resume.md)() | Resumes interleavings that were suppressed by invoking [`Suppress`](./SchedulingPoint/Suppress.md). |
| static [Suppress](SchedulingPoint/Suppress.md)() | Suppresses interleavings until [`Resume`](./SchedulingPoint/Resume.md) is invoked. |
| static [Write](SchedulingPoint/Write.md)(…) | Explores a possible interleaving due to a 'WRITE' operation on the specified shared state. |
| static [Yield](SchedulingPoint/Yield.md)() | Attempts to yield execution to another controlled operation. |

## Remarks

These methods are thread-safe and no-op unless the test engine is attached.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime](../Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../Microsoft.Coyote.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

improved replay trace and new prefix snapshot api (#373)

docs/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime/SchedulingPoint.md, after:

# SchedulingPoint class

Provides a set of static methods for declaring points in the execution where interleavings between operations should be explored during testing.

```csharp
public static class SchedulingPoint
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Interleave](SchedulingPoint/Interleave.md)() | Explores a possible interleaving with another controlled operation. |
| static [Read](SchedulingPoint/Read.md)(…) | Explores a possible interleaving due to a 'READ' operation on the specified shared state. |
| static [Resume](SchedulingPoint/Resume.md)() | Resumes interleavings that were suppressed by invoking [`Suppress`](./SchedulingPoint/Suppress.md). |
| static [Snapshot](SchedulingPoint/Snapshot.md)() | Takes a snapshot of all controlled scheduling and nondeterministic decisions taken during the current test iteration. The testing engine will then try to replay the same decisions in subsequent iterations before performing any new exploration. |
| static [Suppress](SchedulingPoint/Suppress.md)() | Suppresses interleavings until [`Resume`](./SchedulingPoint/Resume.md) is invoked. |
| static [Write](SchedulingPoint/Write.md)(…) | Explores a possible interleaving due to a 'WRITE' operation on the specified shared state. |
| static [Yield](SchedulingPoint/Yield.md)() | Attempts to yield execution to another controlled operation. |

## Remarks

These methods are thread-safe and no-op unless the test engine is attached.

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Runtime](../Microsoft.Coyote.RuntimeNamespace.md)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../Microsoft.Coyote.md)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
