docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type.md, before:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: AwaitableOperation<T>
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type
---
# AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt; class

An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) property. This operation contains a [`TaskCompletionSource`](../Microsoft.Coyote.Tasks/TaskCompletionSourceType) that can be used to wait for the operation to be completed.

```csharp
public class AwaitableOperation<T> : Operation
```

| parameter | description |
| --- | --- |
| T | The result returned when the operation is completed. |

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [AwaitableOperation](AwaitableOperation-1/AwaitableOperation)(…) | Initializes a new instance of the [`AwaitableOperation`](AwaitableOperation-1Type) class. |
| [IsCanceled](AwaitableOperation-1/IsCanceled) { get; } | Value that indicates whether the task completed execution due to being canceled. |
| [IsCompleted](AwaitableOperation-1/IsCompleted) { get; } | Indicates the operation has been completed. |
| [IsFaulted](AwaitableOperation-1/IsFaulted) { get; } | Value that indicates whether the task completed due to an unhandled exception. |
| [Task](AwaitableOperation-1/Task) { get; } | Gets the task created by this operation. |
| [GetAwaiter](AwaitableOperation-1/GetAwaiter)() | Gets an awaiter for this awaitable. |
| virtual [SetCancelled](AwaitableOperation-1/SetCancelled)() | Transitions the underlying task into the Canceled state. |
| virtual [SetException](AwaitableOperation-1/SetException)(…) | Transitions the underlying task into the Faulted state and binds it to the specified exception. |
| virtual [SetResult](AwaitableOperation-1/SetResult)(…) | Transitions the underlying task into the RanToCompletion state. |
| virtual [TrySetCanceled](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetCanceled)() | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the Canceled state. |
| virtual [TrySetException](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetException)(…) | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the Faulted state and binds it to the specified exception. |
| virtual [TrySetResult](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetResult)(…) | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the RanToCompletion state. |

## See Also

* class [Operation](OperationType)
* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Actors](../MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

Remove QuiescentOperation, but add it to the tests as a possible implementation of Operation.  Fix bugs in ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder so it tracks which actor creates another actor.

docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type.md, after:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: AwaitableOperation<T>
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/AwaitableOperation-1Type
---
# AwaitableOperation&lt;T&gt; class

An object representing an awaitable long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) property.

```csharp
public class AwaitableOperation<T> : Operation
```

| parameter | description |
| --- | --- |
| T | The result returned when the operation is completed. |

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [AwaitableOperation](AwaitableOperation-1/AwaitableOperation)(…) | Initializes a new instance of the [`AwaitableOperation`](AwaitableOperation-1Type) class. |
| [IsCanceled](AwaitableOperation-1/IsCanceled) { get; } | Value that indicates whether the task completed execution due to being canceled. |
| [IsCompleted](AwaitableOperation-1/IsCompleted) { get; } | Indicates the operation has been completed. |
| [IsFaulted](AwaitableOperation-1/IsFaulted) { get; } | Value that indicates whether the task completed due to an unhandled exception. |
| [Task](AwaitableOperation-1/Task) { get; } | Gets the task created by this operation. |
| [GetAwaiter](AwaitableOperation-1/GetAwaiter)() | Gets an awaiter for this awaitable. |
| virtual [SetCancelled](AwaitableOperation-1/SetCancelled)() | Transitions the underlying task into the Canceled state. |
| virtual [SetException](AwaitableOperation-1/SetException)(…) | Transitions the underlying task into the Faulted state and binds it to the specified exception. |
| virtual [SetResult](AwaitableOperation-1/SetResult)(…) | Transitions the underlying task into the RanToCompletion state. |
| virtual [TrySetCanceled](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetCanceled)() | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the Canceled state. |
| virtual [TrySetException](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetException)(…) | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the Faulted state and binds it to the specified exception. |
| virtual [TrySetResult](AwaitableOperation-1/TrySetResult)(…) | Attempts to transition the underlying task into the RanToCompletion state. |

## See Also

* class [Operation](OperationType)
* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Actors](../MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
