docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType.md, before:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Operation
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType
---
# Operation class

An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. This operation is passed along automatically during any subsequent CreateActor or SendEvent calls so that any actor in a network of actors can complete this operation. An actor can find the operation using the [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) property.

```csharp
public class Operation
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [Operation](Operation/Operation)(…) | Initializes a new instance of the [`Operation`](OperationType) class. |
| static [NullOperation](Operation/NullOperation) | A special null operation that can be used to stop the [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) from being passed along in a CreateActor or SendEvent call. |
| [Id](Operation/Id) { get; } | The unique id of this operation, initialized with Guid.Empty. |
| [Name](Operation/Name) { get; } | An optional friendly name for this operation. |

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Actors](../MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->

Commit message:

Remove QuiescentOperation, but add it to the tests as a possible implementation of Operation.  Fix bugs in ActorRuntimeLogGraphBuilder so it tracks which actor creates another actor.

docs/_learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType.md, after:

---
layout: reference
section: learn
title: Operation
permalink: /learn/ref/Microsoft.Coyote.Actors/OperationType
---
# Operation class

An object representing a long running operation involving one or more actors. An operation can be provided as an optional argument in CreateActor and SendEvent. If a null operation is passed then the operation is inherited from the sender or target actors (based on which ever one has a [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation)). In this way an operation is automatically communicated to all actors involved in completing some logical operation. Each actor involved can find the operation using their [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) property. property.

```csharp
public class Operation
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| [Operation](Operation/Operation)(…) | Initializes a new instance of the [`Operation`](OperationType) class. |
| static [NullOperation](Operation/NullOperation) | A special null operation that can be used to stop the [`CurrentOperation`](Actor/CurrentOperation) from being passed along in a CreateActor or SendEvent call. |
| [Id](Operation/Id) { get; } | The unique id of this operation, initialized with Guid.Empty. |
| [Name](Operation/Name) { get; } | An optional friendly name for this operation. |

## See Also

* namespace [Microsoft.Coyote.Actors](../MicrosoftCoyoteActorsNamespace)
* assembly [Microsoft.Coyote](../MicrosoftCoyoteAssembly)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for Microsoft.Coyote.dll -->
